Artificial intelligence (AI) is a form of computer science involving programs or machines that can simulate human intelligence. This module explores the security implications of AI by defining:

What AI is, including the different types
How attackers leverage AI
What AI means for your role and maintaining security


Narrow AI, also known as Weak AI, can focus on one narrow task at a time. It has no emotions or conscience and is the only type of AI that currently exists. Voice assistants and ChatGPT are examples of Narrow AI. Google Translate and image recognition software are other examples, but there are many other types used in nearly every industry around the world.


The power of AI in regard to cyberattacks means that everyone needs to use a heightened sense of awareness and take extra precautions as a part of their daily routines. For example, when handling emails, thoroughly inspect the sender's address and never open random links. As a general rule, it's best to remain skeptical unless you're absolutely certain any given scenario is legitimate.


Zero trust is a security model that assumes everything is untrustworthy until proven otherwise. The main concept is "never trust, always verify," which is a great approach to all things security. You can apply it at work (and at home) by never assuming someone is who they claim to be and by always verifying before taking any action. This is especially important if a phone call, text message, or email urges you to provide confidential information or send money.

Even if AI helps attackers hide their intentions, there will still be warning signs. Stay alert for common indicators of scams, such as threatening language, urgent messages, unexpected attachments, and suspicious requests. When using a traditional computer, hover your mouse over links to reveal the full URL. When in doubt, don't click or reply, and report anything suspicious immediately.


Always following policy is a simple, effective way to maintain security. If you're allowed to use AI tools for work, be sure you understand your organization's guidelines for doing so. For example, never input confidential information into a chatbot because it could retain that data. Additionally, be sure to fact-check any information provided to you by a chatbot.